You remember how to say to call?
We need to open the association between to call and to phone and to call myself.
my name is and then you remember it.
Yamar.
Yes, Yamar.
Now we can look a little bit at how the line in the past and the dot in the past interact.
Now we do this in some very common structures in both languages.
For example, you might say something like, I was cooking when the phone rang.
So I was cooking when the phone rang.
Which part is the line and which part is the point?
I was cooking as the line.
Good.
The phone rang as the dot.
So, let's begin with I was cooking.
What is to cook?
Cocinar.
Cocinar, good.
I was cooking
Cosinapa when?
Quanto?
Quando?
The phone rang
El telephono is the phone, like in English, which is actually from Greek.
This first bit, tele, means far, distant, and phone means a voice.
So it's the distant voice is the telephone.
So when the phone rang, and we will say when the phone sounded, and to sound is sonar.
So when the phone sounded
All together I was cooking when the phone rang.
Not for memory but thinking it through again.
I was cooking when the phone rang.
Cocinaba cuando el teléfono sonó.
Very good.
Cocinaba cuando el teléfono sonó, or cocinaba cuando sonó el teléfono.
Which would probably be more natural order in Spanish.
Cocinaba cuando sonó el teléfono.
But both orders are perfectly fine.
To arrive
was yegar yegar to arrive and this is l so we have the double l which is like a y sound e-g ar verb yegar yegar i arrived
He arrived.
We arrived
Llegamos.
Good.
I was speaking on the phone when Maria arrived.
And we're not gonna say literally on the phone in Spanish.
We will say por, por teléfono, by phone, por canusa mean by.
So I was speaking on the phone when Maria arrived.
Hablaba por teléfono cuando Maria llegó.
Very good.
Hablaba por teléfono.
quando Maria y go or hablaba por telephono quando llegó Maria either way.
Good.
So we can see how we're using the line and the point together.
If you was to look up to stay in the dictionary, you would find kedar se.
Then you need to do something with that se.
So if you wanted to say I stayed, how would it be?
Mekede.
He stayed.
Or she stayed.
Or you fummel stayed.
It stayed.
Se quedó.
And we stayed.
Nos quedamos.
Which of course could also mean we stay or we are staying.
Good.
What was to please, the verb that we use to express like, to please.
Gustar.
Good.
And if you want to say I like it, you say it pleases me.
So how do you say I like it?
Me gusto.
Me lo gusto.
We're working on intuition now.
We've got me and it and and we're throwing it all in there.
But we must yes we must process it literally.
It pleases me.
It pleases.
Gusta.
It pleases me.
Me gusta.
Good.
Now if you want to say I liked it you just say of course it pleased me so how would that be
Meguste.
Sorry, Megus Megusto.
Megusto.
Good.
Meguste, what does that mean?
Meguste.
I pleased myself.
I liked myself.
It pleased me.
I liked it.
Good.
I didn't like it.
No, me gusto.
It didn't please me
Apart from the point in the past, you could also use the line in the past here, depending on the context.
So how would you say that?
It wasn't pleasing me
Nomegustaba.
So with this line and point, we're not looking for direct translations from English.
We are looking to understand the concept of the line in time and the point in time and applying it directly in Spanish.
Because in English you would never say something like I wasn't liking it.
And a lot of the time it's totally interchangeable in Spanish.
No me gustó, no me gustaba.
Just means you're thinking in a different way when you say it.
No me gustó.
You're referring to something as an event, as something closed.
And no me gustaba, you're thinking about something as an ongoing thing that occurred over a period of time.
Really, a lot of the time that difference between the point and the line in time just originates in the mind.
Parecer, parecer, was to seem, parecer.
Parecer.
It's related to apparent, and we have a parecer in Spanish, which means to appear.
Is transparent similar?
Transparent also is related, yes of course.
Good.
So para ser is to seem.
How would you say it seems to me?
It seems to me
Me parece.
Good.
It seems good to me, or in Spanish it seems well to me.
Me parece bien.
How would you say it seemed good to me?
Me pareci it seemed.
Ah, yes of course me parecio bien
Good.
Me parasio been.
It seemed good to me.
And you might want to use the line in the past.
You might want to say like it was seeming good
to me.
So even though this is not a translation you would use in English, in Spanish you're just thinking about do I mean a point in time or do I mean ongoing in this context.
So we might want it was seeming to me well.
How would you say that?
Parecer becomes parecia.
Me parecia bien.
Good.
It seemed good to me, but when I saw it, I didn't like it.
So it seemed good to me.
It was seeming good to me.
Me parecia bien.
But when I saw it
Quanto quanto love?
I didn't like it.
No me gustou.
Very good
And again here we see the interaction no between the line and the point.
Me parecia bien.
It was seeming
Okay, fine to me, pero quando lo vi, but when I saw it, this is a very clear point in the past, I didn't like it.
In that moment when I saw it, I didn't like it.
Again, the point in the past
Me parecía bien, pero cuando lo vi, no me gustó.
Excelent.